# minesweepyr-ai
My personal project to make an efficient minesweeper solving AI, with screen interaction for actually playing it in browser/etc. The AI itself is designed to be relatively independent of any actual game program, so it can be easily adapted to different programs. Personally, I test it on minesweeper.online's game.

Maybe once I'm satisfied with the AI, I'll extend the capabilities of screenstuff.py so it can be used "out-of-box" on other game implementations than just minesweeper.online. (Although, you can do that for yourself now if you want; just implement something that can give the AI a grid of tiles, and something that can handle clicking and marking and re-parsing certain tiles that the AI requests.) And yes, I decided to put a "py" pun in the name. It's not a typo.
### algorithm in brief:
In essence, the AI takes a "raw grid" of the tiles (that could come from the screen/etc). The AI then returns tiles that need to be clicked, marked, and "found out", i.e. tiles that the AI needs to know what they changed to. (e.x. if you click an unknown tile, the AI will need to know what that unknown became.) The AI does its best to keep its own state "in the background", of what's been done and what needs to be checked up on. This iteration process repeats until the AI either messes up somewhere or can't find anything else to do.
### how I use it & what screenstuff is for:
How to put the ai to use: the screenstuff.py file is the one which basically runs the program. It handles the interaction between the ai (in the minesweeperai.py file) and the screen of the computer. It has the user calibrate where the game is on the screen, and helps give some customizable options for the ai's initialization; then it handles the AI's clicking and marking commands, and parsing the screen for the places the AI needs to find out, and feeding the information back and forth. The AI is simply the algorithm behind it all; screenstuff takes care of the "front-end" work.

For example, when I run it, I have the console (with screenstuff started and ready) up on one side of my screen, and a browser tab with minesweeper.online (with a new game ready) up on the other side of my screen. Then I start the calibration via the console (moving my mouse over to the top-left, and then bottom-right, parts of the online game when prompted). Once it finishes calibration I let it loose, sit back and enjoy the destruction of minesweeper unfold. Hopefully not an actual mine-exploding destruction. ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
